documentation/README.md, before:

# PyNoise Project

Welcome to the PyNoise Project! The goal of this Python suite is to process and analyze radiation data recorded from fission chain reactions. Our supported methods of analysis currently include Rossi Alpha, Cohn Alpha, and Feynman-Y. For more information about these methods, please see the README files in their respective subdirectories.

## How to Use



### Requirements

To run the PyNoise project, please ensure you have the entire repo downloaded, even if you plan to use only one analysis method. Additionally, the PyNoise suite requires Python 3.10 version to run. Make sure to update your Python version accordingly before using this program.


### Installing Required Python Packages

Pip is the preferred package manager for this project, and this README will explain how to install project dependencies with it. If you are using another manager, please consult its documentation on how to install project dependencies from the requirements.txt file. 

Ensure that Python and ```pip``` are installed on your system. You can check this by running the following commands in the terminal:
```python
python --version
pip --version
```

Create a virtual environment (optional): If you want to install your project in a virtual environment, please do so now.

With the virtual environment activated (or without one), navigate to the PyNoise directory and run the following command to install the 
project dependencies:
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

NOTE: tkinter should be a package included in your Python installation — however, it is occasionally omitted and cannot be installed with pip. Please consult https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76105218/why-does-tkinter-or-turtle-seem-to-be-missing-or-broken-shouldnt-it-be-part for assistance if this is the case.

### Settings Configurations

To allow for a wide range of graphing/analysis options, there is a settings system that can be changed before or during runtime. Please consult the documentation in the settings folder, or use the default settings provided.

### Running PyNoise

To run the PyNoise program, open a terminal in the pynoise folder and enter the following command:

```python3.10 main.py [-g|--gui] [-q|--quiet] [-c|--commands] [command_args]```

Including the -g or --gui will run the program in GUI mode; otherwise, the program will be run on the command line. Providing -q or --quiet will run the program in quiet mode (see the settings README for more information). The -c or --commands is an optional argument that allows you to automate running of the PyNoise Suite (see the commands README for more information)..

### Editor
The editor class for modifying settings is also accessible from the raDriver. See the main README file for more information on its proper use.

Commit message:

Update file README.md
Former-commit-id: 8ade82699fa7a052e34dd8c8a2efaaef29cf3c04
Former-commit-id: 5413f2bdf12b0f29c772496dbc7a7969d4e22ede

documentation/README.md, after:

# PyNoise Project

Welcome to the PyNoise Project! The goal of this Python suite is to process and analyze radiation data recorded from fission chain reactions. Our supported methods of analysis currently include Rossi Alpha, Cohn Alpha, and Feynman-Y. For more information about these methods, please see the README files in their respective subdirectories.

## How to Use



### Requirements

To run the PyNoise project, please ensure you have the entire repo downloaded, even if you plan to use only one analysis method. Additionally, the PyNoise suite requires Python 3.10 version to run. Make sure to update your Python version accordingly before using this program.


### Installing Required Python Packages

Pip is the preferred package manager for this project, and this README will explain how to install project dependencies with it. If you are using another manager, please consult its documentation on how to install project dependencies from the requirements.txt file. 

Ensure that Python and ```pip``` are installed on your system. You can check this by running the following commands in the terminal:
```python
python --version
pip --version
```

Create a virtual environment (optional): If you want to install your project in a virtual environment, please do so now.

With the virtual environment activated (or without one), navigate to the PyNoise directory and run the following command to install the 
project dependencies:
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

NOTE: tkinter should be a package included in your Python installation — however, it is occasionally omitted and cannot be installed with pip. Please consult https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76105218/why-does-tkinter-or-turtle-seem-to-be-missing-or-broken-shouldnt-it-be-part for assistance if this is the case.

### Settings Configurations

To allow for a wide range of graphing/analysis options, there is a settings system that can be changed before or during runtime. Please consult the documentation in the settings folder, or use the default settings provided.

### Running PyNoise

To run the PyNoise program, open a terminal in the pynoise folder and enter the following command:

```python3.10 main.py [-g|--gui] [-q|--quiet] [-c|--commands] [command_args]```

Including the -g or --gui will run the program in GUI mode; otherwise, the program will be run on the command line. Providing -q or --quiet will run the program in quiet mode (see the settings README for more information). The -c or --commands is an optional argument that allows you to automate running of the PyNoise Suite (see the commands README for more information).

**Before running any analysis, please ensure that the Input file/folder, Time column, and Channels column settings are accurate to the file you want to analyze (see the settings README for more information).**

### Editor
The editor class for modifying settings is also accessible from the raDriver. See the main README file for more information on its proper use.
